the color assignment for week 2 we need
to create the illusion of transparency
by mixing two colors together and the
way to do that is to use the blend tool
so first we need to create our
background color shape easiest way to do
that is with the rectangle tool drag out
a rectangle currently the fill color is
white the stroke is black so double
click on the fill color to change it
uncheck the only web colors because you
want to have a wide range of color also
make sure you're working in RGB color
mode not CMYK so then you can use this
slider to pick your color pick a green
now I've got a green square you want to
get rid of the stroke now you have this
nice green shape now you need the shape
that's going to go on top of it select
the rectangle tool again double-click to
pick a different color and it's good to
pick a color that has the contrasts in
terms of its value with the color you've
selected I'll pick this pinkish red
color draw a rectangle on top and now
you need to copy it three times so
select the selection tool and hold down
alt or option to get the double arrow to
appear and then while you're holding alt
or option click and drag to copy your
shape you need to only change the color
where it overlaps and so to do that you
need to use something called pathfinders
so go to window pathfinder to open up
the Pathfinders palette and mine's
already open oops reselect that here's
the Pathfinders palette and then click
on this icon here in the lower left and
I'll show you what it does basically if
you now use the direct selection tool
and you just select
a piece you can see that it's broken up
your pieces into separate shapes so edit
undo move to move that back so now you
have all these separate pieces and you
can just change these ones okay but we
still need the blended color so how do
we get the blended colors well the
easiest way to do that is to use the
blend tool will make a blend of our two
colors using the rectangle tool drag out
two shapes use the selection tool to
select both of them and then go to
object blend decide your blend options
I'm just going to use specified steps
nine specified steps and then object
blend make so now we have blended colors
in between currently we can't select
them it only is letting us select whole
blend and the direct selection tool only
lets us select one at the end or the
other at the end so what we need to do
is expand this so we have access to
these these to use these colors so
select them so we'll select the blend
and then click on object expand and yes
you want to expand the object and the
fill click OK and now we can select our
blended colors so the first one you want
the pink to appear on top so we'll
select one that's closer and hew to the
pink and when you as you can see when I
when I click on one of these the color
shows up in the color palette so pick
this one select it click and drag to
place it and now the pink bar is on top
of the green bar I select the one in the
middle where they're blended exactly
evenly
and that gives the illusion of neither
one being on top of the other it's
ambiguous third one you want it to be
more green so that the pink pairs below
and there you go